Assets is an all purpose asset management tool.  It can be used to manage game objects, animations, rigs, cameras etc...  Anything that needs to be exported can be managed as an asset through Assets
Right clicking an asset gives you access to most common functions
The checkBoxes down the left side of the window are used to select multiple assets.  If you select a bunch of assets, then changing a setting in the right click menu will affect all selected assets
For animated assets, you can either enter explicit start and end times, or you can tell assets to read the start and end times from shots, the camera management script.||to do this, you must link the asset to shots, and then in the option box, assign a start and end shot.  They can be the same if you want the animation to be just for a single shot
The button to the far right of an asset is the notes button.  Clicking on this button opens up a window that lets you associate a note with an asset.  These notes get automatically added to any emails you send through assets, so they're a useful way of communicating with other departments when assets are re-exported||Notes are also a good way to keep track of what assets are used for what for both yourself, and anyone else who may happen to inherit your work
When you export, Assets checks to see if you've specified a pre-export mel command.  If you have, it will execute it.  This allows you to make scene changes just before an asset is exported, and can help you to configure asset export differently from day to day scene interaction.||You can also set post-export mel commands
You can configure Assets to send an export notification email to certain people.  The notification email by default contains the names and any notes associated with selected slots.  You can also specify a custom note to add to the head of the email if you want by selecting the option box||You need to select assets to send notification emails
You can lock slots which stops them from being modified.  Locking a slot locks absolutely everything about it
You can also disable a slot.  Disabling a slot keeps the slot around, but it you can no longer export it.  Disabled slots are useful for times you may want to have multiple variations of an asset in your scene
If you're not using Assets to manage animated assets, you may want to turn off the "Auto Highlighting" in the View menu.  Auto highlighting will automatically highlight which slot corresponds to the current time value
Assets now has view filtering.  If you have many assets in your scene, you can find certain assets in the list quickly by doing a name filter.||Simply expand the view filter menu and type in the name fragment you want to search for.  You can also do primitive range searches
There are now three different types of asset ordering you can do.  You can order assets by slot number (the default), by the start range, or by the colour.  Ordering assets by colour will group similar coloured assets together, in the same order as the colours appear in the colour menu (chromatical order)
The selection tools now respect what asset order type you're using.  So no matter what order you're viewing your assets in, "select above" will always select the assets above the one clicked on
You can copy all settings from one asset to another.  Simply select the assets you want to copy settings TO, right click the asset you want to copy settings FROM, and choose "copy this assets attributes"
You can now search and replace words in an assets string based attributes.  For example, just say you had three assets called "asset", "another_asset" and "this_is_also_an_asset" and you wanted to change the word asset to anim.||Simply select the three assets, right click one of them and choose "search & replace data...".  A window will popup asking you what to search for and what to replace it with.
You can also set custom export paths for an asset.  This allows you to override the global export path setting per asset if needed.  This can be useful for when you want to have most assets export to one location, but one or two export to a different location
The pre and post export MEL command windows now has a preview button.  The preview button will show you the exact code that gets executed for the pre/post MEL command
